The business model of the Red Nebula was relatively simple, it is the typical marketplace model
where you are crossing between offer and demand.
In the offer we had restaurants, restaurants of home food, in general they were very fragmented,
there were no big brands that had many restaurants, they were individual restaurants throughout Spain, in our case.
And on the side of the user, you would have individual users who were looking for,
that still in their decision process of what they were going to eat that day or what they were going to have for dinner that day,
they were not yet clear what they were going to have.
With this I mean that the aggregator fulfills the function of helping in that decision process,
of hey, I eat pizza, I eat Chinese, and within Chinese, this restaurant, this other, depending on different characteristics,
price, variety, closeness, etc.
So it was a book marketplace in the sense that both the offer and the demand were very fragmented and very heterogeneous.
And in that case, these platforms make more sense.
The monetization was simple, of the value transacted through the platform, we charged a percentage.
We charged, in our case, between 10 and 15% of each transaction.
If you had an average ticket of 20 or 25 euros, you had, it depends, about 2 euros, 3 euros per order that you charged to the restaurant every X days.
As almost all payments were online, we controlled the flow of money and liquidated the money that was appropriate to the restaurants.
From the point of view of segments, at that time, on the side of the offer,
the first category was mainly Chinese, Asian food, then pizza, and then there was a long list of small categories.
In Asian, there was sushi, Chinese, sushi, pizza, and hamburger, that was about 70%.
And it was curious how these proportions were changing, because this was a world,
the world of food in Spain, which was mainly pizza a few years ago,
and it has been changing and now people order anything, even before it was of bad quality,
but, let's say, cheaper, more economical, and now you can order better quality food.
From the point of view of the user, young people, the average age was 27-28 years old,
and we had people, really, that we called heavy users,
who used the platform very continuously through the application,
especially young people who live in apartments, who don't want to cook, and they used it every day.
The delivery, the logistics, since the combination of the restaurant to the user's home,
who takes care of that, who does those resources belong to?
At first, 100% to restaurants, but little by little, to keep increasing our base of restaurants,
there came a time when it was complicated, because, for example, in Madrid we had 90% of the restaurants
that made home food, they were already our clients.
So, of course, there came a time when you couldn't put more restaurants
that already serve home food, so we started putting restaurants that didn't do home service,
and for that you had to offer them the logistics.
So, at first, 100% of the logistics were provided by the restaurants themselves,
and in the end, I think I remember, it was like 80% or 85%.
In Madrid and Barcelona, maybe even 70%.
And that rest was a platform that we had built, called Urban Ninja,
which was a technological layer that, similar to Uber,
put in contact with motorists, restaurants and users,
and then that intermediate logistics was generated.
This was a model that later proliferated, well, in fact, when Rocket Internet bought it,
it separated it from the Red Neck and took it to a lot of countries,
to the point that they generated, I think, I remember,
like half a million orders a month through that logistics platform.
And in fact, when Rocket Internet sold the Red Neck to Just Eat,
they had previously taken out all that part,
they had done what they call a spin-off, a carve-out, of that logistic part of the business.
So, they ended up selling the model, the Red Neck, at the same price as they bought it,
but previously they had extracted a very important part of the value.
So, for them, it was a pretty good operation too.
Let's do a brief analysis of the model, starting from what José told us.
He said that the Red Neck is a book marketplace.
Why? Because it connects supply and demand and also a very fragmented supply,
in which there are no big players, thousands of restaurants,
each of them has a very, very, very small quota on the total of the Red Neck,
and hundreds of thousands of users.
And also, when this particularity occurs in the marketplaces, the marketplace has more value.
Well, let's think about what the Red Neck offers to users.
José has given us a clue, he has told us that it not only connects,
but also provides an extra value, which is to help you choose what you are going to eat or dinner.
Regarding the user segments, he told us that there were some heavy users,
they had identified a percentage, we do not know which one, of heavy users,
which are people who almost every day asked for dinner with the Red Neck.
Therefore, I would say that there are two main segments, sporadic users,
I do not know which one is the recurrence, but maybe once every 15 days, once a month, and heavy users.
Let's think now about what are the segments of customers regarding restaurants.
I believe that the main segmentation is, on the one hand, the restaurants with which the Red Neck began to grow,
which already offered a home food service, therefore, they already had a delivery,
and later they were incorporating restaurants that did not have that logistical structure,
because until that moment they had never sent home food.
And this has many implications, in the value proposition of the Red Neck,
which offers the logistical service, and in the rest of the business model,
because, in addition, the Red Neck at that time had to incorporate additional resources,
such as distributors, motorcycles, etc., which has a cost.
And that's why I think that the main segmentation in terms of restaurants is that,
because they are two segments in which we offer them two different value proposals,
which also have repercussions in the rest of the business model.
And to finish, if we analyze the income flows,
they told us that they charged between 10 and 15% of the entire volume they transacted,
which was around a medium ticket of 25 euros, about 2.5 euros, a little more for each operation.
And they also told us that they charged in advance,
that is, when you make an order, the Red Neck is the one who charges,
it is not directly the restaurant.
Then, the Red Neck, what it does is, it sales to the restaurant,
with a periodicity, the restaurant pays it, not 100% of what it has charged,
but 85% or 90%.
This is something positive in the business model, in the income flow for the Red Neck,
because they do not have paid, and they also have a permanent cash balance,
which allows them to have some comfort,
and above all, avoid having to be permanently claiming
to the restaurants, in this case, the payment of services.
Another positive point of the income flow of the Red Neck
would be related to the recurrence,
with the recurrence that they told us about the heavy users.
You have a percentage of your users, they are people who buy almost every day
and that is generating you recurring and very safe income
for a long period of time.